README.md, before:

# Google Tasks MCP Server

![gtasks mcp logo](./logo.jpg)
[![smithery badge](https://smithery.ai/badge/@zcaceres/gtasks)](https://smithery.ai/server/@zcaceres/gtasks)

This MCP server integrates with Google Tasks to allow listing, reading, searching, creating, updating, and deleting tasks.

## Components

### Tools

- **search**
  - Search for tasks in Google Tasks
  - Input: `query` (string): Search query
  - Returns matching tasks with details

- **list**
  - List all tasks in Google Tasks
  - Optional input: `cursor` (string): Cursor for pagination
  - Returns a list of all tasks

- **create**
  - Create a new task in Google Tasks
  - Input:
    - `taskListId` (string, optional): Task list ID
    - `title` (string, required): Task title
    - `notes` (string, optional): Task notes
    - `due` (string, optional): Due date
  - Returns confirmation of task creation

- **update**
  - Update an existing task in Google Tasks
  - Input:
    - `taskListId` (string, optional): Task list ID
    - `id` (string, required): Task ID
    - `uri` (string, required): Task URI
    - `title` (string, optional): New task title
    - `notes` (string, optional): New task notes
    - `status` (string, optional): New task status ("needsAction" or "completed")
    - `due` (string, optional): New due date
  - Returns confirmation of task update

- **delete**
  - Delete a task in Google Tasks
  - Input:
    - `taskListId` (string, required): Task list ID
    - `id` (string, required): Task ID
  - Returns confirmation of task deletion

- **clear**
  - Clear completed tasks from a Google Tasks task list
  - Input: `taskListId` (string, required): Task list ID
  - Returns confirmation of cleared tasks

### Resources

The server provides access to Google Tasks resources:

- **Tasks** (`gtasks:///<task_id>`)
  - Represents individual tasks in Google Tasks
  - Supports reading task details including title, status, due date, notes, and other metadata
  - Can be listed, read, created, updated, and deleted using the provided tools

## Getting started

1. [Create a new Google Cloud project](https://console.cloud.google.com/projectcreate)
2. [Enable the Google Tasks API](https://console.cloud.google.com/workspace-api/products)
3. [Configure an OAuth consent screen](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/consent) ("internal" is fine for testing)
4. Add scopes `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/tasks`
5. [Create an OAuth Client ID](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/oauthclient) for application type "Desktop App"
6. Download the JSON file of your client's OAuth keys
7. Rename the key file to `gcp-oauth.keys.json` and place into the root of this repo (i.e. `gcp-oauth.keys.json`)

Make sure to build the server with either `npm run build` or `npm run watch`.

### Installing via Smithery

To install Google Tasks Server for Claude Desktop automatically via [Smithery](https://smithery.ai/server/@zcaceres/gtasks):

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli install @zcaceres/gtasks --client claude
```

### Authentication

To authenticate and save credentials:

1. Run the server with the `auth` argument: `npm run start auth`
2. This will open an authentication flow in your system browser
3. Complete the authentication process
4. Credentials will be saved in the root of this repo (i.e. `.gdrive-server-credentials.json`)

### Usage with Desktop App

To integrate this server with the desktop app, add the following to your app's server configuration:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "gtasks": {
      "command": "/opt/homebrew/bin/node",
      "args": [
        "{ABSOLUTE PATH TO FILE HERE}/dist/index.js"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Add support for Google API environment variables and prepare for custom Smithery deployment

README.md, after:

# Google Tasks MCP Server

![gtasks mcp logo](./logo.jpg)

This MCP server integrates with Google Tasks to allow listing, reading, searching, creating, updating, and deleting tasks.

## Components

### Tools

- **search**

  - Search for tasks in Google Tasks
  - Input: `query` (string): Search query
  - Returns matching tasks with details

- **list**

  - List all tasks in Google Tasks
  - Optional input: `cursor` (string): Cursor for pagination
  - Returns a list of all tasks

- **create**

  - Create a new task in Google Tasks
  - Input:
    - `taskListId` (string, optional): Task list ID
    - `title` (string, required): Task title
    - `notes` (string, optional): Task notes
    - `due` (string, optional): Due date
  - Returns confirmation of task creation

- **update**

  - Update an existing task in Google Tasks
  - Input:
    - `taskListId` (string, optional): Task list ID
    - `id` (string, required): Task ID
    - `uri` (string, required): Task URI
    - `title` (string, optional): New task title
    - `notes` (string, optional): New task notes
    - `status` (string, optional): New task status ("needsAction" or "completed")
    - `due` (string, optional): New due date
  - Returns confirmation of task update

- **delete**

  - Delete a task in Google Tasks
  - Input:
    - `taskListId` (string, required): Task list ID
    - `id` (string, required): Task ID
  - Returns confirmation of task deletion

- **clear**
  - Clear completed tasks from a Google Tasks task list
  - Input: `taskListId` (string, required): Task list ID
  - Returns confirmation of cleared tasks

### Resources

The server provides access to Google Tasks resources:

- **Tasks** (`gtasks:///<task_id>`)
  - Represents individual tasks in Google Tasks
  - Supports reading task details including title, status, due date, notes, and other metadata
  - Can be listed, read, created, updated, and deleted using the provided tools

## Getting started

1. [Create a new Google Cloud project](https://console.cloud.google.com/projectcreate)
2. [Enable the Google Tasks API](https://console.cloud.google.com/workspace-api/products)
3. [Configure an OAuth consent screen](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/consent) ("internal" is fine for testing)
4. Add scopes `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/tasks`
5. [Create an OAuth Client ID](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/oauthclient) for application type "Desktop App"
6. Download the JSON file of your client's OAuth keys
7. Rename the key file to `gcp-oauth.keys.json` and place into the root of this repo (i.e. `gcp-oauth.keys.json`)

Make sure to build the server with either `npm run build` or `npm run watch`.

### Installing via Smithery

To install Google Tasks Server on your Smithery instance:

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli install @alvinjchoi/gtasks-mcp --client claude
```

### Authentication

To authenticate and save credentials:

1. Run the server with the `auth` argument: `npm run start auth`
2. This will open an authentication flow in your system browser
3. Complete the authentication process
4. Credentials will be saved in the root of this repo (i.e. `.gdrive-server-credentials.json`)

#### Alternative: Using Environment Variables

Instead of going through the authentication flow, you can directly provide Google API credentials via environment variables:

- `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`: Your Google API Client ID
- `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`: Your Google API Client Secret
- `GOOGLE_REFRESH_TOKEN`: A valid refresh token for Google API

With these environment variables set, the server will use them directly instead of looking for credential files.

### Usage with Desktop App

To integrate this server with the desktop app, add the following to your app's server configuration (`claude_desktop_config.json`):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "gtasks": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["gtasks-mcp"],
      "env": {
        "GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID": "YOUR_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID",
        "GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET": "YOUR_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET",
        "GOOGLE_REFRESH_TOKEN": "YOUR_GOOGLE_REFRESH_TOKEN"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Replace the values with your actual Google API credentials.
